We're going to do now is start taking a look at the various phases in a Java parallel streams and peek under the hood and this of course
is important to give you a bigger and better understanding with actually taking place behind the scenes when you run your pedals dreams programs
A job apparel stream
Implements a variant of the famous mapreduce model
which is optimized for multi-core processors
If you're familiar with mapreduce from other context
you probably know it's used for things like cluster basic Computing
What do you end up being able to map your tasks your jobs to multiple computers in a cluster and then be able to get the results back and reduce them to a final result
A good example of this would be something like Google's search engine which uses many computers to do
the searching efficiently and Impala
It turns out that job at parallel streams
Works a little differently
I'll do the basic concept is very similar in particular
the mapreduce model for Java
Carol Streams works on a multi-core processor rather than a cluster
If you want to use cluster stop programming
you have to work with a different type of programming Middle where things like
perhaps Hadoop or Sparks naturally the topics
Over here for Palace dreams
could also work in that context as well
This diagram gives a somewhat Whimsical but fairly realistic rendition of the mapreduce process
So imagine we want to make a sandwich and we've got a bunch of various components
In our refrigerator
We have bread and lettuce and meat
and cheese and tomatoes
So the first phase of this is basically to partition the elements in our fridge and put them out on the table
And then we're going to do is do the map phase where props in parallel different people could slice up the bread
Shred the lettuce slice
the meat spicy cheese
slice
the tomatoes
and so on
And then a different group of people could take those various slices and shredded lettuce and then reduce them by putting together sandwiches
And if you play your cards
right
you could end up having a nice little pipeline of parallel processing
in order to be able to make your sandwiches more quickly and more effectively
Obviously
we're not dealing with making sandwiches here
Would you lie was ready
Ready for Peter programs that wants to take good advantage of multi-core processors
So what actually happens
of course in a parallel stream is this split apply and combine data processing strategy that we've talked about multiple times earlier and now we're really going to get a chance to talk about the parallel aspects of that
So if you recall the three phases in the split
apply combine Paradigm are first split which will end up recursively partitioning a data source up into chunks
And even think of this kind of like they're slicing up pieces of pizza as we showed her the picture
We'll be talking about this in more detail in an upcoming lesson
But for right now
is part of the overview basically went out with a bunch of chunks that is independent
and essentially
an atomic subset of a portion or partition of the original data source
and this partition in may take place recursively in multiple steps in order to be able to get the original data into smaller pieces to be processed effectively in parallel
The way this is
Of course
in Java and JavaScript teams is through split
Raiders
the split Raiders
They used to partition data sources in particular collections in Java
The try Advance method which we talked about in previous weeks is used for both sequential and parallel streams
And of course
the other important methods which is called Tri split is only used for palestrina's
and we'll talk a lot about that as we go further in these lessons in this week in subsequent weeks
Each job Collection comes with a predefined split writer
as I've mentioned
before this split erator
implementation is provided as a default method in the Java collection interface
And you can see how split writer has a default implementation there
which of course
can be overridden by various containers and elections that will Implement collection either directly or indirectly
And you could also see how the Pearl stream method uses splitter Ator
So if you take a look here
you can see how the travel screen method uses a splitter ater along with the stream support
Stream method to create a parallel stream
And you can see it's a perilous train because the trooper amateur is passed into stream support
Stream
It's also possible to Define your own custom Splitters
We've shown some examples of this before in the context of our phrase
Matt's literator from the sequential search screen
get an application
And also with the splitter that we used earlier for the simple search stream
example
we're going to be looking at other aspects of Customs split Raiders here
In the parallel string section is
Not surprisingly
parallel streams will perform best
If your data sources can be split efficiently and can be split evenly and I'll have a whole discussion of that later and I'll show you some results from performance analysis
That quantifies
the differences between different Java Collections in terms of how evenly and how efficiently they split up their data
The second phase in this process is the apply phase
And unlike the earlier discussions
We had for sequential streams were there was only one Fred think that a lot more interesting
We start dealing
with parallel streams in this context
The process chunks
The chunks that are created by the split
Aerator are processed in parallel
in the common
for joints Red Bull
and it has to be the coming-forth joint for
That's the way that streams are designed to work
It turns out that the splitting and applying phases actually
run simultaneously after certain limit their men
after you've created enough chunks
as part of splitting
those get fed into the 4th drawing for and then they start to run in parallel
This is not a purely sequential thing
But the splitting doesn't take place first followed by all the applying instead
They're there interleague
Thereby allowing the program to start running were quickly and get results were quickly
The way that this works under the hood is we'll talk about in much more detail
Later is by using something called work stealing
and this is designed intentionally to maximize CPU processor core utilization
The goal is to keep things as busy as possible
and never let the threads of the process
of course
block or sleep for any length of time
Is that tested
Great performance quite a bit on Modern multi-core processors
Programmers
get some degree of control of the number of threads in the common Fork
Join pool will will talk extensively about how to do this
Both here in the parallel streams discussion
as well as also later when we cover the job of work joint for framework itself
So you'll get a number of different perspectives on how to control the number of threads in the pool
The third and final phase is the combined phase which works by joining the partial results with your credit in the different threads running in the pool
As part of the apply phase into a single so-called reduced result has been a lot of time talking about this as well
This is typically done by terminal operations
like collect and reduce
And as we'll see that the collectors that are used by collect can be either concurrent
which means that they have to be synchronized
They have to use accumulators that synchronized access to a single shared
beautiful result container or they can collections don't
The collectors don't have to be synchronized
Of course
we'll also talked extensively about that as well